README.md, before:

# Docker Mendix Buildpack

![Test status](https://github.com/mendix/docker-mendix-buildpack/workflows/Test/badge.svg)

The Mendix Buildpack for Docker (aka docker-mendix-buildpack) is an **example project** you can use to build and run your Mendix Application in a [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) container.

**⚠️ Warning** If your pipeline is based on Docker Buildpack v5 or an earlier version, see the [upgrading from Docker Buildpack v5](upgrading-from-v5.md) document. To use Docker Buildpack v6, some changes will be required in your build process.

For a Kubernetes native solution to run Mendix apps, see [Mendix for Private Cloud](https://www.mendix.com/evaluation-guide/app-lifecycle/mendix-for-private-cloud/).

## Try a sample mendix application

Open a terminal and run the following code:

> **🚨⚠️🚧 Important note**: always provide `<TAG>` value to guarantee consistent builds. List of tags is available [here](https://github.com/mendix/docker-mendix-buildpack/tags).

```
git clone --branch <TAG> --config core.autocrlf=false https://github.com/mendix/docker-mendix-buildpack
cd docker-mendix-buildpack
tests/integrationtest.sh
```

You can now open your browser [http://localhost:8080]([http://localhost:8080])

### Scanning for vulnerabilities

If you would like to run a vulnerability scanner (to get a baseline security score), please use the latest, LTS or MTS version of Mendix.

Security patches are only available in the latest version of Mendix, and running a security scan on an outdated version might show CVEs that are already patched in the latest version.

## Uses cases scenarios:

This project is a goto reference for the following scenarios :

1. Build and run a Mendix Application on your own docker set up
2. Build the Docker Image of your Mendix application, push to a container repository and run it.

## Getting started

### Requirements

* Docker 20.10 (Installation [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/))
  * Earlier Docker versions are no longer compatible because they don't support multistage builds.
    To use Docker versions below 20.10, download an earlier Mendix Docker Buildpack release, such as [v2.3.2](https://github.com/mendix/docker-mendix-buildpack/releases/tag/v2.3.2)
  * Alternatively, Podman version 5 or later
* Python 3, version 3.8 or later
  * No additional dependencies are needed
  * In Windows, only Python running in Windows Subsystem for Linux is supported
* A UNIX-like operating system, such as Linux or macOS, or Windows Subsystem for Linux
* An x86-64 (AMD64) based CPU
  * ARM64 CPUs are not fully supported
* For running the example tests, a local installation of `curl`
* For local testing, make sure you can run the [docker-compose command](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
* A Mendix app based on Mendix 8 or a later version

## Usage

### Preparation: rootfs

To save build time, the build pack needs a prebuilt rootfs containing the base OS and additional packages.
This rootfs is based on [Red Hat Universal Base Image 9 minimal](https://developers.redhat.com/articles/ubi-faq) image.

To build the rootfs, run the following commands

```shell
docker build -t <builder-root-fs-image-tag> -f rootfs-builder.dockerfile .
docker build -t <app-root-fs-image-tag> -f rootfs-app.dockerfile .
```

The `builder` image contains packages required to build an app; the `app` image contains a reduced package set, containing only packages required to run a Mendix app.

For example:

```shell
docker build -t mendix-rootfs:app -f rootfs-app.dockerfile .
docker build -t mendix-rootfs:builder -f rootfs-builder.dockerfile .
```

This command needs to be done at least once on the builder OS.

Building images on a licensed RHEL host will enable access to additional packages and Red Hat support.

To reuse the rootfs image, push it to a private repository:

```shell
docker push <builder-root-fs-image-tag>
docker push <app-root-fs-image-tag>
```

When building the the `rootfs-builder.dockerfile` file, you can provide the following additional arguments:

- **CF_BUILDPACK** is a version of CloudFoundry buildpack. Defaults to `v5.0.26`. For stable pipelines, it's recommended to use a fixed **v5.0.26** version. Other Cloud Foundry buildpacks might not work with this version of Docker Buildpack.
- **CF_BUILDPACK_URL** specifies the URL where the CF buildpack should be downloaded from (for example, a local mirror). Defaults to `https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack/releases/download/${CF_BUILDPACK}/cf-mendix-buildpack.zip`. Specifying **CF_BUILDPACK_URL** will override the version from **CF_BUILDPACK**.
- **BUILDPACK_XTRACE** can be used to enable CF Buildpack [debug logging](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack#logging-and-debugging). Set this variable to `true` to enable debug logging.

### Compile an MDA

If your app is a source MPK file, an MPR project directory or a compressed MDA file, it needs to be converted or compiled into a format supported by CF Buildpack - an extracted MDA file.

This feature is available in Docker Buildpack version v6.0.0 and later, and is intended to allow building Mendix 8, 9 and 10 apps in custom CI/CD pipelines.

To do this, run:

```shell
./build.py --source <path-to-source> --destination <destination-dir> build-mda-dir
```

where:

- **--source** is the path to the project source, such as a project directory (with a source MPR project) or an MPK file.
- **--destination** is a path to an empty directory where the script should output the build result. This directory will contain
  * a compiled, extracted MDA file - in a subdirectory called `project`.
  * a copy of the `Dockerfile` and the `scripts` directory.
- **--artifacts-repository** - an optional repository to cache MxBuild and Mono build images, for example `quay.io/example/mxbuild-artifacts`. By enabling this option, the `build.py` script will try to use a prebuilt image from this repository if available.

After the `build.py` script completes, you can proceed with building the app image by running the following command (see next section for more details):

```shell
docker build --tag mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2 <destination-dir>
```

where `<destination-dir>` is the same as used when calling `build.py`.

### Build an image from an MDA

Before running the container, it is necessary to build the image with your application. This buildpack contains Dockerfile with a script that will compile your application using [cf-mendix-buildpack](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack/).

```
docker build \
  --tag mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2 .
```

For build you can provide next arguments:

- **BUILD_PATH** indicates where the application model is located. It is a root directory of an unzipped .MDA or .MPK file. In the latter case, this is the directory where your .MPR file is located. Must be within [build context](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/build/#extended-description). Should not be used when using the `build.py` script. Defaults to `./project`.
- **ROOTFS_IMAGE** is a type of rootfs image. Defaults to `mendix-rootfs:app` (a locally prebuilt image).
- **BUILDER_ROOTFS_IMAGE** is a type of rootfs image used for downloading the Mendix app dependencies and compiling the Mendix app from source. Defaults to `mendix-rootfs:builder` (a locally prebuilt image).
- **EXCLUDE_LOGFILTER** will exclude the `mendix-logfilter` binary from the resulting Docker image if set to `true`. Defaults to `true`. Excluding `mendix-logfilter` will reduce the image size and remove a component that's not commonly used; the `LOG_RATELIMIT` environment variable option will be disabled.
- **BLOBSTORE** can be used to specify an alternative buildpack resource server (instead of the default Mendix CDN). For more information, see the [CF Buildpack offline settings](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack#offline-buildpack-settings).
- **BUILDPACK_XTRACE** can be used to enable CF Buildpack [debug logging](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack#logging-and-debugging). Set this variable to `true` to enable debug logging.

### Startup

To start the container, it is required to provide the container with the password
to create an administrative account of your mendix application **ADMIN_PASSWORD**
and the **DATABASE_ENDPOINT** as you can see in the example below:

```
docker run -it \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e DATABASE_ENDPOINT=postgres://username:password@host:port/mendix \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```

or for Microsoft SQL server

```
docker run -it \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e DATABASE_ENDPOINT=sqlserver://username:password@host:port/mendix \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```

Alternative ways to configure database connection:

* `DATABASE_URL` environment variable

```
docker run -it \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e DATABASE_URL=sqlserver://username:password@host:port/mendix \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```

* [Custom runtime settings](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack/#configuring-custom-runtime-settings)

```
// full config
docker run -it \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabaseType=MYSQL \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabaseUserName=mendix \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabasePassword=mendix \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabaseName=mendix \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabaseHost=host:port \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  

// config with jdbc url
docker run -it \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabaseType=MYSQL \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabaseUserName=mendix \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabasePassword=mendix \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabaseJdbcUrl=mysql://db:3306/mendix \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabaseName=mendix \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```

## Features

This project uses the same base technology that Mendix uses to run the application in Cloud Foundry (the [mendix cloudfoundry buildpack](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack)).

* Compilation of a Mendix application from project sources
* Automatic generation of the configuration (_m2ee.yaml_)
* Startup of the application when the container is spin up  
* Configured [nginx](https://nginx.org/) as the reverse proxy

### Current limitations

* **PostgreSQL** and **SQLSERVER** database supported
* This setup will use a trial license for your application by default

### Enabling License

If you wish to start your application with a non-trial license, please provide the additional environment variables:

* LICENSE_ID
* LICENSE_KEY

example:

```
docker run -it \
  -p 8080:80 \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e DATABASE_ENDPOINT=postgres://mendix:mendix@172.17.0.2:5432/mendix \
  -e LICENSE_ID=<UUID> \
  -e LICENSE_KEY=<LICENSE_KEY> \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```

### Passing environment variables to your Mendix runtime

The default values for constants will be used as defined in your project. However, you can override them with environment variables. You need to replace the dot with an underscore and prefix it with MX_. So a constant like Module. Constant with value ABC123 could be set like this:

example:

```
docker run -it \
  -p 8080:80 \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e DATABASE_ENDPOINT=postgres://mendix:mendix@172.17.0.2:5432/mendix \
  -e MX_Module_Constant=ABC123 \
  -e LICENSE_ID=<UUID> \
  -e LICENSE_KEY=<LICENSE_KEY> \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```

Two ways to pass multi-line environment variable:
1. Command line - when **docker run** executed, it's possible to pass multi-line value with double quotes 
```
docker run -it \
  -e CERTIFICATE_AUTHORITIES="-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
                MIIGejCCBGKgAwIBAgIJANuKwREDEb4sMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBCwUAMIGEMQswCQYD
                VQQGEwJOTDEVMBMGA1UECBMMWnVpZC1Ib2xsYW5kMRIwEAYDVQQHEwlSb3R0ZXJk
                YW0xDzANBgNVBAoTBk1lbmRpeDEXMBUGA1UEAxMOTWVuZGl4IENBIC0gRzIxIDAe..."
```
2. Docker-compose - special prefix can be used
```
environment:
    CERTIFICATE_AUTHORITIES: |-
                -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
                MIIGejCCBGKgAwIBAgIJANuKwREDEb4sM....
```

### Configuring Custom Runtime Settings

To configure any of the advanced [Custom Runtime Settings](https://docs.mendix.com/refguide/custom-settings/) you can use setting name prefixed with `MXRUNTIME_` as an environment variable.

For example, to configure the ConnectionPoolingMinIdle setting to value 10, you can set the following environment variable:

Example:

```
docker run -it \
  -p 8080:80 \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e DATABASE_ENDPOINT=postgres://mendix:mendix@172.17.0.2:5432/mendix \
  -e MXRUNTIME_ConnectionPoolingMinIdle 10 \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```

If the setting contains a dot . you can use an underscore _ in the environment variable. So to set com.mendix.storage.s3.EndPoint to foo you can use:

```
MXRUNTIME_com_mendix_storage_s3_EndPoint foo
```

### Configuring Enabled Scheduled Events

The scheduled events can be configured using environment variable `SCHEDULED_EVENTS`.

Possible values are `ALL`, `NONE` or a comma separated list of the scheduled events that you would like to enable. For example: `ModuleA.ScheduledEvent,ModuleB.OtherScheduledEvent`

An example in a docker run command:

```
docker run -it \
  -p 8080:80 \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e DATABASE_ENDPOINT=postgres://mendix:mendix@172.17.0.2:5432/mendix \
  -e SCHEDULED_EVENTS=ALL \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```

### Configuring Application log levels

Configuring log levels happens by adding one or more environment variables starting with the name `LOGGING_CONFIG` (the part of the name after that is not relevant and only used to distinguish between multiple entries if necessary). Its value should be valid JSON, in the format:

    {
      "LOGNODE": "LEVEL"
    }

You can see the available Log Nodes in your application in the Mendix Modeler. The level should be one of:

 * `CRITICAL`
 * `ERROR`
 * `WARNING`
 * `INFO`
 * `DEBUG`
 * `TRACE`


Example:

```
docker run -it \
  -p 8080:80 \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e DATABASE_ENDPOINT=postgres://mendix:mendix@172.17.0.2:5432/mendix \
  -e LOGGING_CONFIG='{"Core": "DEBUG"}' \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```
### Monitoring the runtime

The admin interface can be used to measure the health of the Runtime as per [documentation](https://docs.mendix.com/refguide/monitoring-mendix-runtime). The password of the admin port can be set using the environment variable M2EE_PASSWORD. The standard username is MxAdmin. The interface is exposed to the outside world on the url /_mxadmin/ and can be accessed by using basic HTTP authentication. Refer to the [documentation](https://docs.mendix.com/refguide/monitoring-mendix-runtime) to learn how to use this interface.

To clarify: 
- the HTTP basic authentication credentials are: MxAdmin / [M2EE_PASSWORD] .
- the X-M2EE-Authentication header contains a base64-encoded version of [M2EE_PASSWORD] .

### Health check

The docker compose files, in the ```/test``` folder, contain an example how to perform a healtcheck on a Mendix app:

```
healthcheck:
            test: ["CMD", "curl", "-f", "http://localhost"]
            interval: 15s
            retries: 2
            start_period: 10s
            timeout: 3s
```

The health check monitors the status of the Mendix container, but it does not autoheal or restarts the container in case of unhealthy status, relying on the Docker runtime to perform the aforementioned task. For instance, Kubernetes is in charge to restart the unhealthy containers, but reporting their status it is a responsibility of the containers themselves. For a Kubernetes example, please follow this [link](https://github.com/mendix/kubernetes-howto/blob/master/mendix-app.yaml).

For further information, the official documentation [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#healthcheck).

### Certificate Management


Certificate Authorities (CAs) can be managed using the CERTIFICATE_AUTHORITIES environment variable, see the upstream [Cloud Foundry Build Pack documentation](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack#certificate-management). 

In case your environment does not support multi-line environment variables, a Base64-encoded string containing the desired CA Certificates can be used alternatively. 

This string should be set into the CERTIFICATE_AUTHORITIES_BASE64 environment variable.


### Industrial Edge Configuration File support

When running Mendix on Industrial Edge it is possible to add a configuration file for each Edge device with specific environment variable next to the default variable which are configured within the docker compose file. 

The container will query for a specific location, based on the environment variable: "IEM_CONFIG_PATH", for files with the extention ".env".  Such a file can contain 1 or more environment variable, which will be added to the environment variable of the container. This can be used to set Edge device specific Constants, Scheduled events or custom runtime settings. Check [here](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack#configuring-constants) for the syntax to use. 

Below an example compose file including the "IEM_CONFIG_PATH""

```
myapp:
  environment:
    ADMIN_PASSWORD: *******
    DATABASE_ENDPOINT: 'jdbc:hsqldb:file:~/data/database/db:mem:mendix'
    MXRUNTIME_DatabaseType: HSQLDB
    MXRUNTIME_DatabaseJdbcUrl: 'jdbc:hsqldb:file:~/data/database/db:mem:mendix'
    IEM_CONFIG_PATH: /cfg-data
  image: 'sample_app:1.1'
  volumes:
    - './publish/:/publish/'
    - './cfg-data/:/cfg-data/'
  mem_limit: 1gb
  restart: unless-stopped
  ports:
    - '60000:8080'
```


## Contributions

Contributions are welcomed:

1. open an issue about your topic
2. fork, make a branch named starting with the issue number you are resolving (see [here](https://github.com/mendix/docker-mendix-buildpack/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed)) and make a pull request to the master branch
3. please add some tests for feature changes

### Build Details

Docker Buildpack is tested by running a Github Actions pipeline.

### Versioning

We use [SemVer](http://semver.org/) for versioning. For the versions available, see the [tags on this repository](https://github.com/mendix/docker-mendix-buildpack/tags).

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License v2 (for details, see the [LICENSE](LICENSE-2.0.txt) file).

Commit message:

docs: add desktop UI usage; WSL distro fixes

README.md, after:

# Docker Mendix Buildpack

![Test status](https://github.com/mendix/docker-mendix-buildpack/workflows/Test/badge.svg)

The Mendix Buildpack for Docker (aka docker-mendix-buildpack) is an **example project** you can use to build and run your Mendix Application in a [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) container.

**⚠️ Warning** If your pipeline is based on Docker Buildpack v5 or an earlier version, see the [upgrading from Docker Buildpack v5](upgrading-from-v5.md) document. To use Docker Buildpack v6, some changes will be required in your build process.

For a Kubernetes native solution to run Mendix apps, see [Mendix for Private Cloud](https://www.mendix.com/evaluation-guide/app-lifecycle/mendix-for-private-cloud/).

## Try a sample mendix application

Open a terminal and run the following code:

> **🚨⚠️🚧 Important note**: always provide `<TAG>` value to guarantee consistent builds. List of tags is available [here](https://github.com/mendix/docker-mendix-buildpack/tags).

```
git clone --branch <TAG> --config core.autocrlf=false https://github.com/mendix/docker-mendix-buildpack
cd docker-mendix-buildpack
tests/integrationtest.sh
```

You can now open your browser [http://localhost:8080]([http://localhost:8080])

### Scanning for vulnerabilities

If you would like to run a vulnerability scanner (to get a baseline security score), please use the latest, LTS or MTS version of Mendix.

Security patches are only available in the latest version of Mendix, and running a security scan on an outdated version might show CVEs that are already patched in the latest version.

## Uses cases scenarios:

This project is a goto reference for the following scenarios :

1. Build and run a Mendix Application on your own docker set up
2. Build the Docker Image of your Mendix application, push to a container repository and run it.

## Getting started

### Requirements

* Docker 20.10 (Installation [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/))
  * Earlier Docker versions are no longer compatible because they don't support multistage builds.
    To use Docker versions below 20.10, download an earlier Mendix Docker Buildpack release, such as [v2.3.2](https://github.com/mendix/docker-mendix-buildpack/releases/tag/v2.3.2)
  * Alternatively, Podman version 5 or later
* Python 3, version 3.8 or later
  * No additional dependencies are needed
  * In Windows, only Python running in Windows Subsystem for Linux is supported
* A UNIX-like operating system, such as Linux or macOS, or Windows Subsystem for Linux
* An x86-64 (AMD64) based CPU
  * ARM64 CPUs are not fully supported
* For running the example tests, a local installation of `curl`
* For local testing, make sure you can run the [docker-compose command](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
* A Mendix app based on Mendix 8 or a later version

## Usage

### Preparation: rootfs

To save build time, the build pack needs a prebuilt rootfs containing the base OS and additional packages.
This rootfs is based on [Red Hat Universal Base Image 9 minimal](https://developers.redhat.com/articles/ubi-faq) image.

To build the rootfs, run the following commands

```shell
docker build -t <builder-root-fs-image-tag> -f rootfs-builder.dockerfile .
docker build -t <app-root-fs-image-tag> -f rootfs-app.dockerfile .
```

The `builder` image contains packages required to build an app; the `app` image contains a reduced package set, containing only packages required to run a Mendix app.

For example:

```shell
docker build -t mendix-rootfs:app -f rootfs-app.dockerfile .
docker build -t mendix-rootfs:builder -f rootfs-builder.dockerfile .
```

This command needs to be done at least once on the builder OS.

Building images on a licensed RHEL host will enable access to additional packages and Red Hat support.

To reuse the rootfs image, push it to a private repository:

```shell
docker push <builder-root-fs-image-tag>
docker push <app-root-fs-image-tag>
```

When building the the `rootfs-builder.dockerfile` file, you can provide the following additional arguments:

- **CF_BUILDPACK** is a version of CloudFoundry buildpack. Defaults to `v5.0.26`. For stable pipelines, it's recommended to use a fixed **v5.0.26** version. Other Cloud Foundry buildpacks might not work with this version of Docker Buildpack.
- **CF_BUILDPACK_URL** specifies the URL where the CF buildpack should be downloaded from (for example, a local mirror). Defaults to `https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack/releases/download/${CF_BUILDPACK}/cf-mendix-buildpack.zip`. Specifying **CF_BUILDPACK_URL** will override the version from **CF_BUILDPACK**.
- **BUILDPACK_XTRACE** can be used to enable CF Buildpack [debug logging](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack#logging-and-debugging). Set this variable to `true` to enable debug logging.

### Compile an MDA

If your app is a source MPK file, an MPR project directory or a compressed MDA file, it needs to be converted or compiled into a format supported by CF Buildpack - an extracted MDA file.

This feature is available in Docker Buildpack version v6.0.0 and later, and is intended to allow building Mendix 8, 9 and 10 apps in custom CI/CD pipelines.

To do this, run:

```shell
./build.py --source <path-to-source> --destination <destination-dir> build-mda-dir
```

where:

- **--source** is the path to the project source, such as a project directory (with a source MPR project) or an MPK file.
- **--destination** is a path to an empty directory where the script should output the build result. This directory will contain
  * a compiled, extracted MDA file - in a subdirectory called `project`.
  * a copy of the `Dockerfile` and the `scripts` directory.
- **--artifacts-repository** - an optional repository to cache MxBuild and Mono build images, for example `quay.io/example/mxbuild-artifacts`. By enabling this option, the `build.py` script will try to use a prebuilt image from this repository if available.

After the `build.py` script completes, you can proceed with building the app image by running the following command (see next section for more details):

```shell
docker build --tag mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2 <destination-dir>
```

where `<destination-dir>` is the same as used when calling `build.py`.

### Desktop UI (Windows)

For a guided build-and-push experience on Windows, use the desktop UI in `ui/mendix_ui.py`:

1. Ensure WSL with a Linux distro (e.g., `Ubuntu-22.04`) is installed.
2. Run `python ui\mendix_ui.py` from this folder.
3. Select your WSL distro and fill in:
   - Buildpack directory, Mendix source, Docker context
   - Image name and tag
   - AWS Account ID, ECR Repo Name, AWS Region
4. Optional: click `Install Basics` to install `python3` in WSL.
5. Click `Start Build` to compile with `build.py` and build the runtime image.
6. Click `Push to ECR` to tag and push the image using temporary AWS credentials.

The UI separates build and push steps and shows logs for each action.

### Build an image from an MDA

Before running the container, it is necessary to build the image with your application. This buildpack contains Dockerfile with a script that will compile your application using [cf-mendix-buildpack](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack/).

```
docker build \
  --tag mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2 .
```

For build you can provide next arguments:

- **BUILD_PATH** indicates where the application model is located. It is a root directory of an unzipped .MDA or .MPK file. In the latter case, this is the directory where your .MPR file is located. Must be within [build context](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/build/#extended-description). Should not be used when using the `build.py` script. Defaults to `./project`.
- **ROOTFS_IMAGE** is a type of rootfs image. Defaults to `mendix-rootfs:app` (a locally prebuilt image).
- **BUILDER_ROOTFS_IMAGE** is a type of rootfs image used for downloading the Mendix app dependencies and compiling the Mendix app from source. Defaults to `mendix-rootfs:builder` (a locally prebuilt image).
- **EXCLUDE_LOGFILTER** will exclude the `mendix-logfilter` binary from the resulting Docker image if set to `true`. Defaults to `true`. Excluding `mendix-logfilter` will reduce the image size and remove a component that's not commonly used; the `LOG_RATELIMIT` environment variable option will be disabled.
- **BLOBSTORE** can be used to specify an alternative buildpack resource server (instead of the default Mendix CDN). For more information, see the [CF Buildpack offline settings](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack#offline-buildpack-settings).
- **BUILDPACK_XTRACE** can be used to enable CF Buildpack [debug logging](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack#logging-and-debugging). Set this variable to `true` to enable debug logging.

### Startup

To start the container, it is required to provide the container with the password
to create an administrative account of your mendix application **ADMIN_PASSWORD**
and the **DATABASE_ENDPOINT** as you can see in the example below:

```
docker run -it \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e DATABASE_ENDPOINT=postgres://username:password@host:port/mendix \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```

or for Microsoft SQL server

```
docker run -it \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e DATABASE_ENDPOINT=sqlserver://username:password@host:port/mendix \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```

Alternative ways to configure database connection:

* `DATABASE_URL` environment variable

```
docker run -it \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e DATABASE_URL=sqlserver://username:password@host:port/mendix \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```

* [Custom runtime settings](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack/#configuring-custom-runtime-settings)

```
// full config
docker run -it \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabaseType=MYSQL \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabaseUserName=mendix \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabasePassword=mendix \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabaseName=mendix \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabaseHost=host:port \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  

// config with jdbc url
docker run -it \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabaseType=MYSQL \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabaseUserName=mendix \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabasePassword=mendix \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabaseJdbcUrl=mysql://db:3306/mendix \
  -e MXRUNTIME_DatabaseName=mendix \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```

## Features

This project uses the same base technology that Mendix uses to run the application in Cloud Foundry (the [mendix cloudfoundry buildpack](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack)).

* Compilation of a Mendix application from project sources
* Automatic generation of the configuration (_m2ee.yaml_)
* Startup of the application when the container is spin up  
* Configured [nginx](https://nginx.org/) as the reverse proxy

### Current limitations

* **PostgreSQL** and **SQLSERVER** database supported
* This setup will use a trial license for your application by default

### Enabling License

If you wish to start your application with a non-trial license, please provide the additional environment variables:

* LICENSE_ID
* LICENSE_KEY

example:

```
docker run -it \
  -p 8080:80 \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e DATABASE_ENDPOINT=postgres://mendix:mendix@172.17.0.2:5432/mendix \
  -e LICENSE_ID=<UUID> \
  -e LICENSE_KEY=<LICENSE_KEY> \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```

### Passing environment variables to your Mendix runtime

The default values for constants will be used as defined in your project. However, you can override them with environment variables. You need to replace the dot with an underscore and prefix it with MX_. So a constant like Module. Constant with value ABC123 could be set like this:

example:

```
docker run -it \
  -p 8080:80 \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e DATABASE_ENDPOINT=postgres://mendix:mendix@172.17.0.2:5432/mendix \
  -e MX_Module_Constant=ABC123 \
  -e LICENSE_ID=<UUID> \
  -e LICENSE_KEY=<LICENSE_KEY> \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```

Two ways to pass multi-line environment variable:
1. Command line - when **docker run** executed, it's possible to pass multi-line value with double quotes 
```
docker run -it \
  -e CERTIFICATE_AUTHORITIES="-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
                MIIGejCCBGKgAwIBAgIJANuKwREDEb4sMA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBCwUAMIGEMQswCQYD
                VQQGEwJOTDEVMBMGA1UECBMMWnVpZC1Ib2xsYW5kMRIwEAYDVQQHEwlSb3R0ZXJk
                YW0xDzANBgNVBAoTBk1lbmRpeDEXMBUGA1UEAxMOTWVuZGl4IENBIC0gRzIxIDAe..."
```
2. Docker-compose - special prefix can be used
```
environment:
    CERTIFICATE_AUTHORITIES: |-
                -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
                MIIGejCCBGKgAwIBAgIJANuKwREDEb4sM....
```

### Configuring Custom Runtime Settings

To configure any of the advanced [Custom Runtime Settings](https://docs.mendix.com/refguide/custom-settings/) you can use setting name prefixed with `MXRUNTIME_` as an environment variable.

For example, to configure the ConnectionPoolingMinIdle setting to value 10, you can set the following environment variable:

Example:

```
docker run -it \
  -p 8080:80 \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e DATABASE_ENDPOINT=postgres://mendix:mendix@172.17.0.2:5432/mendix \
  -e MXRUNTIME_ConnectionPoolingMinIdle 10 \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```

If the setting contains a dot . you can use an underscore _ in the environment variable. So to set com.mendix.storage.s3.EndPoint to foo you can use:

```
MXRUNTIME_com_mendix_storage_s3_EndPoint foo
```

### Configuring Enabled Scheduled Events

The scheduled events can be configured using environment variable `SCHEDULED_EVENTS`.

Possible values are `ALL`, `NONE` or a comma separated list of the scheduled events that you would like to enable. For example: `ModuleA.ScheduledEvent,ModuleB.OtherScheduledEvent`

An example in a docker run command:

```
docker run -it \
  -p 8080:80 \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e DATABASE_ENDPOINT=postgres://mendix:mendix@172.17.0.2:5432/mendix \
  -e SCHEDULED_EVENTS=ALL \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```

### Configuring Application log levels

Configuring log levels happens by adding one or more environment variables starting with the name `LOGGING_CONFIG` (the part of the name after that is not relevant and only used to distinguish between multiple entries if necessary). Its value should be valid JSON, in the format:

    {
      "LOGNODE": "LEVEL"
    }

You can see the available Log Nodes in your application in the Mendix Modeler. The level should be one of:

 * `CRITICAL`
 * `ERROR`
 * `WARNING`
 * `INFO`
 * `DEBUG`
 * `TRACE`


Example:

```
docker run -it \
  -p 8080:80 \
  -e ADMIN_PASSWORD=Password1! \
  -e DATABASE_ENDPOINT=postgres://mendix:mendix@172.17.0.2:5432/mendix \
  -e LOGGING_CONFIG='{"Core": "DEBUG"}' \
  mendix/mendix-buildpack:v1.2  
```
### Monitoring the runtime

The admin interface can be used to measure the health of the Runtime as per [documentation](https://docs.mendix.com/refguide/monitoring-mendix-runtime). The password of the admin port can be set using the environment variable M2EE_PASSWORD. The standard username is MxAdmin. The interface is exposed to the outside world on the url /_mxadmin/ and can be accessed by using basic HTTP authentication. Refer to the [documentation](https://docs.mendix.com/refguide/monitoring-mendix-runtime) to learn how to use this interface.

To clarify: 
- the HTTP basic authentication credentials are: MxAdmin / [M2EE_PASSWORD] .
- the X-M2EE-Authentication header contains a base64-encoded version of [M2EE_PASSWORD] .

### Health check

The docker compose files, in the ```/test``` folder, contain an example how to perform a healtcheck on a Mendix app:

```
healthcheck:
            test: ["CMD", "curl", "-f", "http://localhost"]
            interval: 15s
            retries: 2
            start_period: 10s
            timeout: 3s
```

The health check monitors the status of the Mendix container, but it does not autoheal or restarts the container in case of unhealthy status, relying on the Docker runtime to perform the aforementioned task. For instance, Kubernetes is in charge to restart the unhealthy containers, but reporting their status it is a responsibility of the containers themselves. For a Kubernetes example, please follow this [link](https://github.com/mendix/kubernetes-howto/blob/master/mendix-app.yaml).

For further information, the official documentation [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/builder/#healthcheck).

### Certificate Management


Certificate Authorities (CAs) can be managed using the CERTIFICATE_AUTHORITIES environment variable, see the upstream [Cloud Foundry Build Pack documentation](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack#certificate-management). 

In case your environment does not support multi-line environment variables, a Base64-encoded string containing the desired CA Certificates can be used alternatively. 

This string should be set into the CERTIFICATE_AUTHORITIES_BASE64 environment variable.


### Industrial Edge Configuration File support

When running Mendix on Industrial Edge it is possible to add a configuration file for each Edge device with specific environment variable next to the default variable which are configured within the docker compose file. 

The container will query for a specific location, based on the environment variable: "IEM_CONFIG_PATH", for files with the extention ".env".  Such a file can contain 1 or more environment variable, which will be added to the environment variable of the container. This can be used to set Edge device specific Constants, Scheduled events or custom runtime settings. Check [here](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack#configuring-constants) for the syntax to use. 

Below an example compose file including the "IEM_CONFIG_PATH""

```
myapp:
  environment:
    ADMIN_PASSWORD: *******
    DATABASE_ENDPOINT: 'jdbc:hsqldb:file:~/data/database/db:mem:mendix'
    MXRUNTIME_DatabaseType: HSQLDB
    MXRUNTIME_DatabaseJdbcUrl: 'jdbc:hsqldb:file:~/data/database/db:mem:mendix'
    IEM_CONFIG_PATH: /cfg-data
  image: 'sample_app:1.1'
  volumes:
    - './publish/:/publish/'
    - './cfg-data/:/cfg-data/'
  mem_limit: 1gb
  restart: unless-stopped
  ports:
    - '60000:8080'
```


## Contributions

Contributions are welcomed:

1. open an issue about your topic
2. fork, make a branch named starting with the issue number you are resolving (see [here](https://github.com/mendix/docker-mendix-buildpack/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed)) and make a pull request to the master branch
3. please add some tests for feature changes

### Build Details

Docker Buildpack is tested by running a Github Actions pipeline.

### Versioning

We use [SemVer](http://semver.org/) for versioning. For the versions available, see the [tags on this repository](https://github.com/mendix/docker-mendix-buildpack/tags).

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache License v2 (for details, see the [LICENSE](LICENSE-2.0.txt) file).
